This is March 14.
We're over in the blocker building and about to have the good fortune to interview Curtis Lard about his experiences here as a very dedicated member of the faculty.
Curtis, test yours.
Testing one, two, three.
Curtis, for the sake of someone who will listen to this tape or read the transcription a long number of years from now, introduce this interview with a summary of your experience and background before you came to A&M.
Where'd you grow up?
Where'd you go to school?
That sort of thing.
Okay.
I was born in the state of Alabama and the TVA Lakes came in and developed a lake system.
where they moved the people out of northern Alabama.
Our family moved to Tennessee, just north of there.
And then I was raised on a farm, what we call a low-income farm.
And later my mom told me that, hey, you'll never amount to nothing on this farm.
That's the way she said it.
Said, you got to go make something out of yourself.
So I took off and went to the University of Tennessee.
And I received my baccalaureate degree.
I didn't like school.
but I stayed in school until I got a PhD.
I went on off to, I worked for the Tennessee Valley Authority after my graduation, and then I went to graduate studies at Michigan State and worked there and got my master's and PhD and had a chance to come back to Tennessee Valley Authority, but instead I had a desire to help young people
who came from rural areas to better themselves, so I chose the University route and I went to work at the faculty of the University of Tennessee.
And then I was there.
You have mentioned your special area and your major.
Okay, and my area of specialization when I went to the faculty of Tennessee was agricultural economics.
I had minors in
economics and also mathematics, particularly mathematical statistics.
And then I had a special area of philosophy which dealt with philosophic value theory and ethics because I felt like, again, that was the basis of a lot of our economic studies and everything we have may have dollars but it also has a lot of human value associated with it so I needed to understand that.
So then I went back on the faculty at the University of Tennessee, and I stayed there about four years in the summer, and then I started looking around, and Texas A&M sent me a letter, said, hey, why don't you come down and look at us?
And so I came down and looked at Texas A&M, and of course it was a different place.
The trees were short.
There were no real forests here.
I couldn't find any women on the campus and so I interviewed and I thought they were nice people.
One of the little strange things that happened, the board of directors at that time rather than the board of regents had met and they had fired the dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
That was Dr. R.E.
Patterson and so it was still on my itinerary that I was supposed to visit with him
But in my interview, they substituted H.O.
Conkle, who at that time was one of the administrators in an experiment station.
And I asked Dean Conkle at that time, do you think you'll have anything to do with the future of this college?
And he said, I just might have.
And of course, sometime later, President Rudder named him as dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
Then I went back home.
At that time, the Astrodome had just come in.
It was a new thing.
And so I got to see the Astrodome.
And then while I was here visiting, I went back to Knoxville on the campus there.
And I decided with my wife that we would not be coming to Texas A&M.
They made me an offer, and I still said that I didn't think I'd be coming to Texas A&M.
It was quite a shock to me.
And so then they said, well, would you reconsider?
Why don't you write out what it would take to get you to come to Texas A&M?
So I did, and they said, well, come on and join us.
So I had to either put up or shut up.
That's how I ended up at Texas A&M and it's a great place.
I've been here since 1967 and I worked for the first four years in the department.
Well actually it was three years in the department.
I started in 67 and in 1970 Dr. Conkle and Dr. Potts found out how I worked with students and they
asked me to come over to the dean's office and work with students.
They wanted to make A&M, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, one of the greatest institutions in the world, the largest enrollment, and have great significance.
And so they let me work with students and with faculty and with programs, and we worked with the high schools throughout the state of Texas, worked through the great extension service,
and got nominations for outstanding top 10% of students all over the state.
And we contacted them with letter and our agents and we just had students just fogging in here to come to A&M.
And even though before I went over there, Texas Tech had more students enrolled in agriculture than we did.
And after being there about six years, five years I guess it was,
We had come to the point where we recognized as the largest agriculture college in the United States.
We'd come from less than 1,600 undergraduates to about almost 4,200 undergraduates and the graduates
from about 400 to about 1,400, so we were up around 5,600 total students.
All right, let's go back to the... Okay.
You said when you first visited that first time... Yes.
...that your impression was not as positive as it might have been.
Describe what were the disappointments or... Well, the shocks.
The shocks.
At that time it had been a little over 10,000 students in the previous year and that fall they were expecting something like 11,000 or so.
There were essentially no women on campus and I kept asking the question, why were there not women?
And they said, well, they are permitted now under circumstances where they're either a spouse or either a son or a daughter of a faculty member.
They could also come if it's the only place that offered a degree which they needed, which would be like veterinary medicine.
And also we had to go through a very rigorous, and you may have done this too, all these, the McCarthyism was really everywhere then, and you had to sign all these affidavits about what you had done, and it was a little, and what you were a part of, and it was a little bit strange and regimented.
As you probably know, the college operated then much like
Well, when I say college, I mean the university, because it was really moving through that phase of changing from a college to a university.
It operated much like a military.
You had your general, and you had your captains, and you had your first sergeants.
And the action took place right at the department level, and those are the guys that really made things happen.
Now, as you were here for a few days for an interview visit, the department head in those days was whom?
Dr. Ty Tim.
Describe him.
Okay.
Ty Tim was a great gentleman.
Everybody liked him.
Everywhere over the state of Texas, they knew Ty Tim.
He's a flat-headed Dutchman from Hollettsville, Texas.
and he was proud of it and he was proud to be an Aggie and he went off to Harvard and got his doctor of public administration and he really sold A&M and he had a lot of influence on students to get to go to Harvard and to go do the best they could just like John Hagler who now is you know the foundation building over here he's working with that and he helped
make donations to that.
But he's one of our graduates, and Dr. Tim had a lot of influence on what he chose to do.
And Foraker, you remember, went off to Harvard.
Larry Foraker.
He was a great guy, too.
And Dr. Tim knew him well.
But Dr. Tim was the kind of person you walked in his office and you visited with him.
He wanted you to know that he cared who you were.
He knew Lyndon Johnson.
He knew...
all the Texas politicians all the way to Washington.
And whenever something would happen to you, like you get a promotion or something good happened, he would always write you a note, a real sweet acknowledgement that he recognized that you're getting ahead.
So he pushed you ahead, and he wanted you to, he called them his fair-haired boys, you know.
Well, today it'd be, I don't know what word he'd use to describe women, but anyway, he would have still been generous, I'm sure, towards them too.
Did you talk to Kunkel?
Did you talk to anyone higher than?
Well, at that time, you would get to meet the president, you know.
Did you?
General Rutter.
Did you meet him?
Yeah.
What was your impression of him?
Oh, well, I'll never forget one of the comments he made as he talked to all of us, you know, the new faculty.
And he made these same comments from time to time.
He said, Texas A&M is not great because it has all these facilities, physical facilities, and all these facilities.
all these outstanding faculty.
Texas A&M greatness will be measured by what happens to the young people who come here or the individual who come here to get a higher education.
And a measure of our
our goodness will be what happens to those people that we deal with.
And you know, I was able to share that in initiation of our honor society, this Phi to Sigma that I'm chapter advisor for and have been since probably 1972 or so.
But his grandson was in the audience and I got to tell that story.
And his widow, Margaret, was there and she heard it and she just thought it was so neat because
I told it as if he was speaking to the faculty and reiterated that story.
And I could tell it really went home to them when I said that.
But it made a lasting impression on me.
And I still think today the good that A&M does is what it does with the people that come here to get a higher education.
Now, during that first visit, you said that your first impression was not completely favorable.
What was missing here?
Well, at the time they were going through this, I think some bad things were going on.
There was a lawsuit against the university over AAUP, American Association of University Professors, and over some issues that came up at the time.
They put them on censure.
And on other campuses, this organization had been looked upon as a positive issue.
contribution to the administration of universities.
And yet here they had run into a conflict.
And then, but there were some good things here too.
We had some outstanding people in the department like Dr. Tim and Dr. Pat Wooten and John McNeely.
They were some real good people.
And Bob Cherry, you probably know later, he was secretary of the board.
He was one of the faculty members.
So they had a real fine faculty and had an opportunity
to help young people.
They were a very small department though, you know, only a couple hundred students or so.
Describe where the department was located and the facilities that it enjoyed.
Okay.
We were, at the time, it was located in an agriculture building, which is right by the library.
The library was being expanded at that time.
They were adding the Sterling Evans addition.
And it was right in the center of the campus.
Right across was the pavilion.
And there was an opportunity for the Ag Economics Department once it started growing because it got up to like 860 undergraduates and probably 200 and something, nearly 1,000 students.
by 19 and say 76, 77, somewhere along there.
And they had an opportunity to have a building.
But Dr. Tim, back when he was head of the department, he always said, you ought to be in the center of the campus.
And so that's why they stayed in the agriculture building, along with the poultry science department and rural sociology was there.
And that's where they were located, right there in the center of the campus.
It may not be the center today, but it was then.
All right, when you first arrived, what kind of office facility were you provided?
Okay, I was up on, it was actually the, if you call a ground floor, it had been on the fourth floor, but it was the third floor, and it was room 312.
And anyway, it had been called 412, but they changed it to 312.
Well, my Social Security number starts with 412, so that was real easy that they gave me that.
and I officed with Cal Boykin.
Cal Boykin is now here in the community, and he has written some nice work, and his wife has done one on the Italian families in the Brazos Valley.
He was my office mate.
And we had a nice office, you know, compared, it's probably around, I think it's 11 1â„2 feet by 12 feet.
It is a pretty nice place.
And he was in one side and I was in the other, so it worked out real good.
Describe the physical move of you and your wife and all that you brought with you from Knoxville.
Knoxville, yeah.
Well, we were moving and...
And we used, we had a moving van.
It probably, at that time, it probably only cost $1,000 to move all the way from Knoxville, which is far in excess of 1,000 miles.
But we traveled by car.
And they kept telling me that, Dr. Tim did, he said, now, we want you to be here on Labor Day.
And I think that's like, may have been the first day of September or something like that.
And I could not believe that anybody
that would be working at a public university on Labor Day.
So I know coming into town that day, I didn't get here until nearly five o'clock.
And I called Dr. Tim and he said, well, you're late to work today.
That's a good idea.
That's a good one.
I'll never forget that, you know.
But he said that, he made a comment about that.
He said, well, Curtis, we didn't hire you for your time, but it's for your expertise and how you represent Texas A&M in your department.
That's what we hired you for, so we don't keep up with you by the clock.
Now describe the community and what you all found as housing accommodation.
Okay, that's a good comment because there wasn't any George Bush Boulevard.
The road played out over here near
back in there where all those dairy streets are and cattle streets like Hereford and all that.
But it played out right there about where, right down from the President's home.
That's the end of it right there.
And it went back in through those little areas.
And then Texas Avenue then was really just a two-lane road.
And when they said Highway 6 runs both ways, that was all of Highway 6.
There wasn't the one around the town.
That was it.
But they started expanding it shortly after that.
And they were debating then whether to add two lanes, additional lanes to each side or one.
Well, they made the mistake of just adding one.
And we've gone through that recently, trying to expand that.
And another thing, though, there were such few people here.
I mean, like 12,000 people.
and a little over 12,000 people in College Station.
And down in Bryan, I mean, you really had to hunt for a place to shop.
I mean, they had Orr's Supermarket for your groceries, and they had a Sears and a Ward's downtown Shire on down there and also near Villa Maria.
And that was about it.
And I remember a comment that the advertisement was,
It said about Sears then, because that was a big, big store, and it said they sell everything.
And my little son, he said, Dad, they don't sell everything.
They don't sell milk.
He was just a little kid at that time.
But we lived over on Francis Street.
We rented a home there on Francis Street.
Do you remember what that first rent was?
Oh, let's see, probably around, I think it was like $400 a month.
It wasn't a lot, you know, compared to, and get a full house, you know, it was a full, I think it was a three or four bedroom house.
It was over there by where James Cooper lived right next door.
That's OC's brother, and they're both medical doctors.
So it was really close, close in.
And I remember the first day that I drove to campus,
when the crisis were started, they had warned us that you probably can't get on campus coming through the east gate.
And lo and behold, when they drove out there to Texas Avenue, the traffic was backed all the way up because they didn't have the flow they have now and people could come through the campus and it was really a mess.
And it did take a long time to get on.
Traffic jams here have never really been real big, you know, maybe 10 minutes at the most.
Now let's see, one of the items we'll insert back earlier, and I won't ask any more money questions.
What was your beginning salary?
Okay, I'm going to round that off to a whole dollar and probably to a whole hundred dollar, but it's about $16,300.
And that was a big salary then because some of the other people had only gotten like $12,000.
But my request when they asked me, well, what would you do?
And of course, I think they probably took advantage of me the next year.
But after that, I was always...
rated in the top group as far as salary increases.
You came at what rank?
Associate Professor.
And what, as far as you understood it, what were your duties?
What were you to specialize in?
What courses to teach and so forth?
Okay, at that time, they wanted, my area of specialization was production economics and farm and ranch management.
So I taught the introductory or the farm management class, 325.
I wasn't supposed to teach it that fall, but the professor they had hired, he didn't show up because he was still trying to complete his doctorate, and so they asked me to do it, and then he did come later and joined with me and worked like a graduate TA, you know.
And so that worked out real good.
But I had a lot of fine students in that class.
I still remember them.
Some of them are professors now, and some of them are out in the business world, have done really good.
Like Jimmy Cheek, he is in that class, and he's now the dean of agriculture over at the University of Florida.
Yeah.
And then I had Jim Sanders, who was a professor in animal science.
He was in that class.
I had a lot of good people in that class.
I'll never forget that.
That was my first experience at Texas A&M, and it was a real good one.
Now, they wanted me to teach graduate courses because at that time we were trying to build an outstanding graduate program.
We had about 40 or so students, and they wanted to increase that to more.
make a more prestigious department and so he wanted me to teach the dynamic production economics at the graduate level and the static production economics and I ended up teaching like a lot of other courses like research methodology and then I developed a course in econometrics and at that time the computers were just really getting big and I wrote manuals on how to use the
mathematical programming procedures on the computer.
I'm not as proficient now as I was then in all those things because I knew a little bit more about the languages and how to talk to a computer today.
I know how to turn it on and use it, but not as good as I did then.
But that was a good experience.
I enjoyed that, and those manuals went out all over the world where they used that dynamic programming.
Now, when you arrived, we already had a graduate program.
Was the doctoral program very far along in ag econ?
Yeah, it was established.
It was established at the time.
Now, we hadn't graduated a lot of people, but ones we had graduated were really substantial people.
I know one is Dr. Johnson.
He is head of the extension service for the
State of Iowa now, he's one of our graduates, you know.
We've had several, it came about that time.
Describe, you surely must have had some interesting experiences in some of your early classes with Aggies.
What was it like for a Tennessean born in Alabama to come and start teaching Aggies?
Well, the thing that impressed me so much about them is how disciplined they were.
in terms of their dress and how they had respect for their teachers.
That was just such a clean thing because I'd look out over that audience and probably half of the students or more were cadets.
Now sometimes they would do a little rowdy things on the weekend and maybe not show up on Monday morning class.
And I asked him, well, one day I said, why weren't you in class last Friday?
He said, well, Thursday nights we go out to, I shouldn't tell this on him, but we went out, go out to Lakeview and said, I knew I'd had a little bit too much.
And so I waited until everybody left, and I was the last car to leave.
And said that, and the highway patrol or whoever was looking, they were looking for me.
So they got me, and I spent the night downtown, you know.
But he didn't want anybody to know that.
And I didn't hold it against him.
I said, as long as you won't do that again, it will not affect your grade at all.
And sure enough, he never did that again.
Did you, in those early years, have to learn Aggie lingo and slang?
Well, I would say yes, because I became involved with advising the Corps of Cadets.
And I had such characters as John Sharp, you know, and Rick Perry.
They were my, I remember them as fish.
And John Claytor, they were a bunch of real fine young men.
But I remember John Sharp wondered, will I ever make it at A&M?
I said, oh, you can probably make it at A&M.
And why don't you just shoot for the top?
You know, you can be a deputy corps commander if you don't want to be commander, or you can be head of student government, or you could be student body president, you know.
Well, you know John Sharp did become student body president, and now, who knows, Rick Perry might become governor.
Now do you remember any specific experiences with either of those during their student days?
You mentioned saying some encouraging words to John.
Well, he had this, you knew his little idea about a nickel, don't you?
How that he did that.
That's how he got elected on a nickel.
He'd use that nickel.
I gave him back a nickel one day later when he was, you know, he became a controller.
He's really done well in political circles until he ran for the last one and he got put on the side.
But John's a sharp man.
He'll come back.
Not only is his name Sharp, but he's Sharp.
What about Rick?
Well, I knew Rick, but not as well as I did John.
But Rick's a fine young man.
Now, were either one of them majors in Aggie?
No, no, no.
They were not.
John Sharp was a political science major.
And I believe Rick was probably an animal science major.
Because I had them both in History 105 and I think in the same section, I'm not sure.
But they got spotted quickly by Wayne Stark.
Yeah, oh yeah.
I remember Wayne, he just tried to identify any students that had potential leadership and encourage them to shoot for the sky, you know.
He was that type of guy.
Let's see, in those early days, how did you try to prepare yourself to become better aware of Texas A&M?
How did you, what was your path of learning more about this institution?
Well, I've done this before.
Wherever I go, whenever I go into a community, I want to know the history of that community.
I want to know its values and where it's headed.
and I want to find out this from the best people and the wisest people and the oldest people I can find and then move on forward because I found that just gives you a gold mine of information.
So when I did that here at A&M, I could see if I came in 67, I could talk to people like Charlie Crawford there was born in the 1800s, you know, or Fred Jones, and I could find out things about A&M that people who actually went here didn't know, and I just kept,
picking that up, picking that up, and I have the ability to recall things like that.
It's not necessarily a photographic memory, but it's almost like that, and I enjoyed very much learning from these people, and then I would participate in the Corps, I would read, and then I met faculty that were concerned about these issues, and former students, and then of course I prepared for Aggie Muster and all that,
which indicates the great things about Texas A&M.
I studied being an agricultural and engineering college.
I had a great respect for that, that being my area of expertise.
And I could see the whole world needed us.
So that's one of the reasons I came to Texas A&M.
No state had more of a vast land area.
Now if we think about it, Illinois and California have outstanding agricultural production too, but we have oil and gas and we've got
people and cities and plains and deserts.
We've got agriculture and geography that's almost equivalent to the United States.
And that impressed me.
And I just thought, well, if I'm going to make a move, Texas will be there a long time to come, certainly more than my lifetime.
Do you remember any effort to try to orient and or prepare a newly arrived faculty member when you were a novice here?
Not really.
We just had to do it on our own.
There would be a few things where you could have, you didn't have a mentoring program or anybody like Fish Camp, we didn't have that where the faculty to get indoctrination.
What are the high values here at A&M and history of A&M?
We didn't really have that.
Who were the faculty members in the department that you turned to for advice as a newcomer?
Yeah, well, probably the best guy was Pat Wooten.
He just passed away last year.
And he was the head of the teaching program, both a graduate and undergraduate.
And Dr. McNeely was head of the research.
And they were good people to sit down with and discuss your program, your courses, your research program.
And, of course, Dr. Tim was a good talk with about administrative matters and things like that.
But those were the individuals I turned to.
As far as you were aware, where did A&M's program in ag economics rank nationally?
Not very high at that time.
I don't know what position it would have been, but I do think
by probably around 73 or so, maybe 72, it would be in the top 10.
And I think it still is, you know.
We want a top 10 university.
Well, I feel like that the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, it's on many of these, like Gorman Ratings and things like that, many of their programs are already up there in the top 10.
Do you remember any advice anybody at Tennessee gave you as you came to A&M?
Well, one of the deans up there said, Curtis, we've enjoyed having you here.
And he just figuratively put his arm up and right over the door.
He said, the key is over the door.
So anytime you want to come back, you're welcome.
But while you're there, do a good job.
And they did not at all try to infer that you were going to a lesser place right there?
Oh, no.
No, not at all.
Texas A&M at the time was, as you know, after the Century Report there in 1960 or 61-2 when they did all that study about the more or less what's going to happen to this university as we go ahead and blueprint for it.
It was headed up.
There's no doubt about it.
It was headed up and, of course, with General Rutter here as our president,
He was making sure that those things went forward, and he knew how to work with people, and he knew how to confront confrontational situations so that he would come out winner, or A&M would come out a winner, and he did good on those things.
All right, as you settled in, how did you go about becoming better acquainted with the state?
Okay, being in agriculture,
We have an extension service and we have research programs.
We've made it a point
to go out into the state.
And you almost make a rule.
You go one way and come back another.
That way you can see twice as much of the state.
And so those things had opportunities to go to the high schools, to the research and extension centers, because at that time, Dr. Kunkel, he was emphasizing, let us do the research and extension.
out in the state where those issues arise.
And so they put in all these districts throughout the state.
So that gave me a chance to travel to some of those and meet with the people and put on, when I got in the dean's office in 1970, I was able to put on science days at those research and extension centers and invite the
like the high school students from those high schools to come and observe science in action.
And that was a great thing too.
And it caused me to learn the people, and particularly like in the valley, where I didn't know much about at all.
And to try to get the Hispanic students to come to A&M was quite a task, but we finally got the guys coming.
And then later we got the ladies coming, and now that's a great recruiting area for Texas Indians.
They love Aggies.
As a Tennessean, did you find it, since so many Tennesseans came to Texas 150 years ago,
Did you find it comparatively easy to understand the accents?
Oh, yes, sir.
No problem at all there.
The only thing you have trouble understanding when you come in the state of Texas is you can't be a Texan unless you're born here.
Did anybody ever tell you that?
Oh, sometimes.
They say, man, where's your Aggie ring, you know?
And I tell them, well, I didn't graduate at A&M, and I wasn't born in Texas.
And they say, well, you ought to be.
Did you ever have any good experiences about how to pronounce the name of a town or a county?
Oh, lots of them, like Mahaya.
But there have been lots of them.
And, of course, you know, we had that trouble with one while ago.
But it's...
A lot of it's based upon the Indians that were here a lot of the times.
You want to learn how the local pronounce it before you try to pronounce it because you'll obviously show that you're an outsider if you don't.
All right, so as you immersed yourself in the teaching and other activities of being a faculty member, what were your guidelines?
What were your rules of operation?
Well, I wanted to do something that made a difference, like whether it's in research or whether it's in teaching students.
I wanted them to, I remember Dr. Potts, he made a comment to any young person who came to Texas A&M, and I agreed with this.
that it ought to make a difference in their life back in their community or wherever they go to work.
So because they went to Texas A.M., the world is better for it, and Texas is better for it.
So I use that as more or less as a guide.
I want them to learn the subject matter, but I want them to be able to apply this out in our state to make it a better place.
And then on our research, I look for...
significant issues that are not being addressed or need to be addressed or that are not being properly addressed.
Such as?
Well, in recent times, we hadn't paid enough attention, I didn't think, to the urban areas of Texas.
So I did quite a bit of work with turf industry, golf courses, homes, and the landscaping.
And that's a real significant industry in Texas.
Maybe $6 billion more a year is spent.
for maintaining those kinds of resources.
And then another one that recently has been the damage that the fire ants are doing to our urban areas.
So I've been on one of those projects.
And then another one I'm working on now has to do with how we dispose of the biomass that's created by these intensive livestock operations so that it's environmentally kind and all that.
So those are some issues that I've been involved with
But in our department, there have been a lot like the risk factors.
Texas is a very high risk agricultural area because of weather and water and things like that and not available and the prices too.
And then some of the change has been made in policy.
But those are the kinds of things that guide me, and I get excited about it when I see that you can make a difference.
Whether it's in the life of a person or whether it's in the economy of Texas, I think we need to make a difference.
We may be in a classroom, but if we're in a classroom, in a laboratory, we ought to have our vision outside of that, how it's affecting the people and how it's affecting the land and where we work and play and live.
As you, in those early years... Okay, keep going.
In those early years, were there some achievements, events for you personally that led you to believe you were making progress on your self-appointed goals?
Oh, yes.
When I saw that we became the largest agricultural college in the United States, and CBS was so impressed, they came down and did a documentary on our college
That was pretty impressive.
They met our students, they saw the kind of campus we had, and to me that was more or less a confirmation that we were doing some good.
Who deserves credit for that accomplishment then?
Well, I would say
a team effort like Dr. Kunkel and Dr. R.C.
Potts and also our county agents worked with all the high schools throughout the state and then of course our departments were at that time were pushing forward to trying to
gain recognition and do an outstanding job and they were really really growing because you can imagine growing from like a little less than 1600 students to 40 nearly 4200 and and that was in a period of like five years you know that was a fantastic growth but at the same time you know women were coming to the campus and that's probably where the greatest credit goes is
permitting women, and they were, I'll never forget that though.
We'd get radio stations, newspapers, and television stations would be calling us about all this going on with all the women majoring in agriculture.
what in the world are they going to do?
And I said, well, do they have labels on them, men or women jobs?
And they would say, no, I don't guess they do.
And they said, well, what can women do?
Anything they want to, you know.
So I finally convinced them that this is not news, it's just what it ought to be.
And so that was impressive to me to see that we were able to really start giving a,
more or less a more comprehensive education and move from this concept of a college to a university environment and it worked.
Can you share some of the experiences from those days of you or any of your colleagues relating to women?
There must be some that were very satisfying, there must have been some that were a little humorous.
My experience with women students had always been outstanding here because the women came with the same basic values as the guys, and they didn't change the university.
The university changed because they were here, but they had the same basic values and wanted to get a good education and go back out and work.
And as I visited with ladies in my classes, they were the best students.
I mean, they were good students.
They were there to get an education.
and not to get an MRS degree, or whatever they call it, you know.
They were here to get an education.
Now, and I was impressed.
And as you look through, even today, the leadership, the presence of clubs and organizations, you'll find that women are just as competitive as anybody else.
And so it didn't ruin A&M, and I know
Old Army might have thought it would, but it didn't.
Do you remember hearing any of your colleagues who stumbled or had a little bit of embarrassment when they forgot that there were women in the classroom?
Oh, that happens all the time because it, as most people refer to,
only one gender when they speak, and you can hear them correct themselves pretty fast.
But some teachers just were still prejudiced toward women and would say that if you're determined to be in here, you're gonna have to be good.
And then once the female student accepted that and went on,
The professor accepted them, too, and they were good students, and he didn't hold the prejudice against them.
As you went around the state in the late 60s, did you find much reservation among the citizens of Texas about coeducation at A&M and making the Corps volunteer and racial integration?
Well, of the first two, there seemed to still be, they didn't know it.
They didn't know that they could go to A&M.
Then no women could go here.
And they didn't know they could go without being in the Corps.
But there wasn't a big issue about the racial issues because they came at the same time they admitted women.
And it seemed like the focus was on women rather than on the race issue.
And I remember one of the outstanding guys that came here from St.
Augustine, Texas.
His name is Frederick McClure.
And I used to...
I visited with him when he was in high school, about coming to A&M, and he wondered, Dr. Lord, how am I going to get a date?
I'll have to go all the way down to wherever, you know.
He ended up marrying a lady from over at St.
Marcus, you know.
Do you remember your first impression of Fred when you first met him?
great talented person I teased him about that when the Lord gave out talents he went back for seconds that was my first impression of Frederick and and it's neat that the fact that during the centennial year of A&M he had the chance to be student body president and he was and when we had the recognition of A&M's hundredth anniversary and we had these
speakers here like John Connelly and all those different big speakers.
And then they had Frederick go up and give a response from the student body.
And to the person, they looked like, man, I wish I hadn't spoken today because as you know what an orator Fred was and still is.
As you know, he's vice chair of the Board of Regents now.
and he was an ag economics major.
And he was gonna go at one time, you know, like be a medical doctor in biochemistry, but he finally ended up in ag economics and then went on to law school and he's been in politics ever since.
Except now he's in the business world, but I still think he's a politician.
He had been a national FFA?
He was the state FFA president and national FFA secretary.
And he was the first of his ethnic background to hold that national office, I think, wasn't he?
Well, I know he was in Texas, the first African-American president of the Texas FFA.
But he probably was at the national level.
I don't know that, though, as a fact.
Did you have him in class?
I did not have him in class, but I visited with him and worked with him on many occasions, and being in the dean's office in student affairs, so I had a chance to know him well.
And his family are wonderful people.
He came back to give the Aggie muster here, and he reflected on his dad, you know, and his parents.
They were schoolteachers and principals, and they had a big, big influence on him.
And he loved A&M, and he was,
It was just the right time for him and all of his talents and abilities were superb.
And I'm sure glad he came to A&M because he was looking at other places.
In those years, with Fred as an exceptional example, did you as a faculty member encounter any student difficulties over race?
Did, were there?
Not really.
I mean, I asked Fred those questions and he said, you know, he heard some actions or saw some things that were prejudiced at times.
He knew how to handle it, see.
If you called him a name, he would say, oh, that sounds a little racist to me.
Let's don't address that right.
And again, like that, and people corrected themselves.
Frederick knew how to handle situations like that.
It's my impression that, as you mentioned a while ago,
that for old Aggies, it was women and Voluntary Corps that worried them.
Oh, those were the big issues.
It was not race and was not Hispanics being here.
But see, you have to look back and the race issue at A&M was a late issue compared to other campuses across the nation.
So there was enough information around to know that that's
We need to be in the modern times.
I think that helped A&M a lot.
As this growth and progress was coming in the late 60s and early 70s, what did you hear from other land-grant schools around the country about A&M's progress?
they were impressed and they wanted to know how are you growing so fast and what are you doing and they want to share with us in our programs and we would come they'd come and review our programs and take the information back to their schools it was it was going it was gaining a lot of national recognition and and I think they were very very complimentary about what was happening I don't remember any
negatives about it.
It was all good.
Did the college and or department leadership have any other institutions that you think they were using as models?
I don't
I think they pointed at one, but they looked at some of the great agricultural colleges, like you could look at the Midwest and maybe one in California, but those would probably be, and maybe even one in the Ivy League here at Cornell.
But they had a few programs there and maybe one over on that.